Block access to metadata servers for all components (#464)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/concepts/aws.md

# AWS

> AWS is one of the cloud platforms supported by Lokomotive. This document explains various architecture decisions specific to this platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS is one of the cloud platforms supported by Lokomotive. This document explains various architecture decisions and details specific to this platform.
```

These "platform" docs will likely also explain **how things work** and not only what decisions we've taken and why we've taken them.

> ## Blocked EC2 instance metadata access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access to EC2 metadata endpoint
```

I'd keep the title more general (by removing "blocked").

> By default, the access to [EC2 instance metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html) is blocked for all pods. This is to prevent possible exploitation of IAM roles which might be attached to the cluster nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, access to [EC2 instance metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html) is blocked for all pods. This is to prevent possible exploitation of IAM roles which might be attached to the cluster nodes.
```

In this case I think the article is unnecessary :-)

> If your deployment relies on on those roles, you can allow it to access the metadata service by creating a NetworkPolicy, similar to the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow an application to access the metadata service, create a NetworkPolicy similar to the following example:
```

I've suggested a more concise phrasing.

> If your deployment relies on on those roles, you can allow it to access the metadata service by creating a NetworkPolicy, similar to the following example:

Reviewer: IIUC a NetworkPolicy can override a GNP. Is that correct?

Author: Yes, as far as I know.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-metadata-access
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      foo: foo
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
  egress:
  - to:
    - ipBlock:

>         cidr: 0.0.0.0/0

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we want to use `0.0.0.0/0` in the example. Is there a less "radical" way to allow a pod to talk to the metadata endpoint? I don't want it to look like we're recommending not to filter pod traffic at all.

Author: Currently, we don't have any policies to block outgoing traffic, so if one defines the policy, which allows traffic to metadata endpoint, it will block access to everything else :/

Author: Maybe we should add something like:
> If your deployment already has NetworkPolicy defined, you can add the following rule to it to allow access to the metadata service.

> ```

Reviewer: I suggest adding the following line after the example:

>The policy above allows pods with the label `foo: foo` to send packets to any IP address including the metadata service.

# AWS

AWS is one of the cloud platforms supported by Lokomotive. This document explains various architecture decisions and details specific to this platform.

## Access to EC2 metadata endpoint

By default, access to [EC2 instance metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html) is blocked for all pods. This is to prevent possible exploitation of IAM roles which might be attached to the cluster nodes.

> To allow an application to access the metadata service, create a NetworkPolicy similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: To address @johananl's concern below, I suggest this:

```suggestion
To allow an application to access the metadata service, you can create a NetworkPolicy selecting the application.

Here's a simple NetworkPolicy that allows pods with the label `foo: foo` to send packets to any IP address including the metadata service.

For simplicity, this is a very open NetworkPolicy. You should consider creating a more restrictive one for your production clusters.
```

And we should remove the last paragraph if we go for this.
